The Joe Rogan experience.
Was it disappointing like being on Congress in Congress and,
and seeing that kind of behavior,
like if you have this ideal of what a representative of our
democracy is supposed to be,
and then seeing people that are petty and that are sneaky and
doing little.
Um, this was my first impression getting elected, uh,
got elected 2012, got there and sworn in, in January of 2013.
And, uh, I remember, um, calling home,
I think I was talking to my family, my parents or somebody. And I was like,
this place is like high school, even on the house for that.
That's the only time we're all together.
Usually for votes when you've got everybody all 435 members there and you see
the little cliques gathering in their designated corners,
like the cafeteria tables and, uh, you know,
one click is kind of, you know,
giving the mean girls side-eye to the other click and like, oh, if you're,
you're hanging out on that side of the room with those people,
what's wrong with you, man. It's it's, I mean, it's,
it's funny,
but it's so terrible when you understand that this is the power
base for decision-making in our country. And you'd like,
how is this even possible?
It's possible because so often people will vote for a
candidate because like they have a really cool ad on TV or like yeah. That,
that person, you know,
is a good looking guy or a good looking girl or they talk good. They talk nice.
Sounds smart. Yeah. All right. Check. Rather than like, all right,
what are your capabilities? What are your qualifications? Like?
What kind of judgment will you exercise in making decisions that affect
literally every single aspect of our lives as Americans in this
country?
And so it's terrible that we have,
um, this kind of makeup in our, in our government,
but also like we,
as voters have to do a much the powers in our hands,
ultimately in how we're making decisions, uh,
in choosing who gets to work for us and not forgetting that,
not forgetting that those people who work in the United States Capitol,
they work for us when it comes right down to it.
And so we have the power to hire and fire.
I think that people have developed such a sophisticated
way of manipulating folks that the thing
about running for office, uh, particularly running for president it's,
it's one of the weirdest things where the most important
job ever. Yeah. You don't have to be qualified. You just have to be chosen.
So you don't have to have any experience in government.
You don't even really have to know how government works.
All you have to do is get enough people that are willing to give you a and
you can have the nuclear football, like not saying Trump, I'm not saying him,
but if someone comes along some ridiculously popular
person that knows absolutely nothing about government,
but they're like Justin Bieber, he wants to be president.
I love that guy.
Like that is not outside of the realm of possibility. All you,
if you, if, if you have some incredibly charismatic person and you,
you like them over Marco Rubio or whoever the it is Ted Cruz. And you're like,
right, well, that guy sucks. This guy can sing his off. Let's go with him. Like,
but you're literally giving someone the power to run the greatest army.
The world's ever known. The, the,
the most insanely technologically advanced
civilization on earth. And the one with the most weapons,
you're going to let a person who wins a popularity contest.
They can run this. Yeah, man.
I mean, I, I lived through this. I literally just lived through this,
but what's the alternative, well, people, first of all,
need to kind of have the veil lifted on, on,
on what this is and how both political parties play into this.
And the media plays into this. You know, I saw from,
from the very day that I announced my candidacy for president, you know,
I ran for president on, uh, out of concern of,
of some very real issues that our country is facing,
wanting to bring voice to those issues and actually do something about it. Uh,
the, the, the rise of, of north Korea's nuclear capabilities, for example,
and how we in Hawaii lived through the reality of that threat.
When we got that, that missile alert that came through that caused, you know,
families to go and like tell people what the real quick.
So this was January, 2019, uh,
early one Saturday morning,
the civil defense alert system on our state sends out a text message to every
cell phone in the state blared warnings on the radios, uh, the,
the sirens on television saying, uh,
missile incoming to Hawaii, uh,
this is not a drill take shelter. This is not a drill.
And so the response to that was like, holy,
this could be the end.
An incoming missile to Hawaii from North Korea would literally mean the
destruction, not only of Hawaii, but the,
the aftermath and everything else would, would imp have a much,
much bigger impact. So that's how people responded, you know,
grabbing their little kids and running in, like, where do you take shelter?
Like going into the bathtub and hunkering down. There was a, uh, a,
father's a video of a father who got his like little eight year old daughter and
lowered her down a manhole and was, was,
I think he said something in the video. Like if we survive this,
try to come find me. And there,
there are countless other stories of, of, I heard from,
from a father who he had one child who was in downtown Honolulu.
The other was on the west side of Oahu, which is a good 45 minute drive.
And he was physically in the middle. And, and in those moments,
he was sitting there knowing he had minutes to live,
trying to decide which child he was going to go and drive to and spend those
last minutes of life with
the seriousness of this is something that has
and continues to be lost on the leaders of our country.
And this was one of the main reasons that I ran for president so that I could do
something to make sure that no other American,
no other family went through what we went through in Hawaii. On that day,
I announced my candidacy for president so that we can talk about these very
serious issues. And on day one immediately,
literally that very day within minutes, mainstream media starts attacking.
That's when the whole Russian asset thing began,
these seeds were planted to say, oh, she's some kind of suspicious candidate.
You better watch out.
The smears started the building of this caricature of
me as something that has nothing to do with who I am, my experience,
my background, my capabilities, what I'm advocating for. Nope.
The media didn't want to talk about that. The, the,
the other candidates didn't want to talk about it going on the debate stage.
Okay, I'm going to,
this is a national stage to be able to raise these very serious issues about
the, the, the nuclear threat that our country faces,
this new cold war and what we need to do to walk back away from the brink
of nuclear catastrophe. Nobody wants to talk about it.
They want to go towards the superficial attacks. They want to go towards the,
he said, versus she said,
and ultimately the things that will cause ratings to go up,
and that will further this, this popularity contest that you're talking about,
which ultimately all of this is the ultimate disservice
to voters,
because it takes away their ability to make this informed decision
about who should hold the nuclear football and what experience they bring,
what kind of judgment they would bring,
what kind of foresight they bring to this most powerful and important
job and responsibility.
New episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.